[Core] Merge Driver/Job's runtime environment when it conflicts (#39208)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/handling-dependencies.rst

.. warning::

>     Specify the ``runtime_env`` argument in the ``submit_job`` call or the ``ray job submit`` ensures ensures the runtime environment is installed on the cluster before the entrypoint script is run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Specifying the ``runtime_env`` argument in the ``submit_job`` or ``ray job submit`` call ensures the runtime environment is installed on the cluster before the entrypoint script is run.
```

>     If ``runtime_env`` is specified from ``ray.init(runtime_env=...)``, the runtime env is only applied to all children Tasks and Actors, not the entrypoint script (Driver) itself.

Reviewer: From what I've seen, tasks, actors and drivers are not capitalized elsewhere in the doc. It would be great if you could double check and make it consistent

Author: This was recommended from @angelinalg. I will just stick to this it for now.

""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Runtime environment resources on each node (such as conda environments, pip packages, or downloaded ``working_dir`` or ``py_modules`` directories) will be cached on the cluster to enable quick reuse across different runtime environments within a job.  Each field (``working_dir``, ``py_modules``, etc.) has its own cache whose size defaults to 10 GB.  To change this default, you may set the environment variable ``RAY_RUNTIME_ENV_<field>_CACHE_SIZE_GB`` on each node in your cluster before starting Ray e.g. ``export RAY_RUNTIME_ENV_WORKING_DIR_CACHE_SIZE_GB=1.5``.

When the cache size limit is exceeded, resources not currently used by any Actor, Task or Job are deleted.

.. runtime-environments-job-conflict:

Runtime Environment Specified by Both Job and Driver
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> You can specify Ray driver's runtime environment via `ray.init(runtime_env=...)` or `ray job submit --runtime-env`.

Reviewer 2: Ray driver's runtime env can only be specified via job submission. ray.init runtime env has no effect on the driver.

Reviewer: Oh great catch.  `ray.init()` runtime env only sets the default for any subsequent task or actor's runtime env

Author: I think actually ray job submit also is not for driver's runtime env? Does it mean ray job submit creates a runtime env before it submits a driver?

Author: IIUC, ray job submit just passes the config via env var, and both will just set runtime env at ray.init which is used for actor/task?

Author: wait, so if we do job submission, the driver script will already have a runtime env created? How does it work now? Is the runtime env created by supervisor actor first and the driver is started with the same config?

Author: It looks like it is already written in a pretty confusing way; https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/handling-dependencies.html#specifying-a-runtime-environment-per-job (it considers as job submit & ray.init as "runtime env per job"). I think we should technically distinguish them in this case. Let me try rewriting this part

Reviewer: > Is the runtime env created by supervisor actor first and the driver is started with the same config?

That's right, the driver is started by the actor as a subprocess so it inherits the cwd and env vars automatically without Ray having to do anything.

> When the cache size limit is exceeded, resources not currently used by any actor, task or job will be deleted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the cache size limit is exceeded, resources not currently used by any Actor, Task or Job are deleted.
```

.. runtime-environments-job-conflict:

Inheritance
"""""""""""

> **Job to Driver Inheritance**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Job to Driver inheritance**
```

> When both Ray Job and Driver specifies runtime environments, their runtime environments are merged if there's no conflict.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When both the Ray Job and Driver specify runtime environments, their runtime environments are merged if there's no conflict.
```

> Ray raises an exception if there's any conflicts in runtime environments. You can set an environment variable `RAY_OVERRIDE_JOB_RUNTIME_ENV=1` to override

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ray raises an exception if the runtime environments conflict. You can set an environment variable `RAY_OVERRIDE_JOB_RUNTIME_ENV=1` to override
```

> Job's runtime environment by Driver's runtime environment when there's a conflict. In this case, the merge behavior is equivalent to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Job's runtime environment by Driver's runtime environment when they conflict. In this case, the merge behavior is equivalent to
```

> Driver to Tasks/Actors inheritance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Driver to Tasks (or Actors) inheritance.
```

> Driver to Tasks/Actors inheritance.

Author: I will add one

> * The ``runtime_env["env_vars"]`` field will be merged with the ``runtime_env["env_vars"]`` field of the parent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The ``runtime_env["env_vars"]`` field is merged with the ``runtime_env["env_vars"]`` field of the parent.
```

>   This allows for environment variables set in the Job's runtime environment to be automatically propagated to the Driver, even if new environment variables are set in the Driver's runtime environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This inheritance behavior allows for environment variables set in the Job's runtime environment to be automatically propagated to the Driver, even if new environment variables are set in the Driver's runtime environment.
```

>   If there's any conflict in environment variables, Ray raises an exception.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  If the environment variables conflict, Ray raises an exception.
```

> * If there's no conflict, every other field in the ``runtime_env`` will be merged.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If the environment variables don't conflict, every other field in the ``runtime_env`` is merged.
```

Example:

.. testcode::

  # Job's `runtime_env`
  {"pip": ["requests", "chess"],
  "env_vars": {"A": "a", "B": "b"}}

  # Driver's specified `runtime_env`
  {"env_vars": {"C": "c"}}

>   # Driver's actual `runtime_env` (merged with Job's)

Reviewer 2: I assume by Driver's runtime env, you mean runtime_env specified in ray.init(), then the driver's actual runtime env can only be job's runtime env since ray.init runtime env only have effects on tasks and actors.

I'd avoid Driver's runtime_env, by saying runtime_env specified via ray.init()

Also there is another confusing thing: we normally say ray.init() runtime_env as job level runtime env but now there is another job level runtime env specified via job submission.

Author: I guess I will call it job-level runtime env specified ray job submit vs ray.init then

Author: I rewrote this part. Can you check?

  {"pip": ["requests", "chess"],
  "env_vars": {"A": "a", "B": "b", "C": "c"}}

Conflict Example:

.. testcode::

  # Example 1, env_vars conflicts
  # Job's `runtime_env`
  {"pip": ["requests", "chess"],
  "env_vars": {"C": "a", "B": "b"}}

  # Driver's specified `runtime_env`
  {"env_vars": {"C": "c"}}

>   # It will raise an exception because "C" env var conflicts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  # Ray raises an exception because the "C" env var conflicts.
```

  # Example 1, other field (e.g., pip) conflicts
  {"pip": ["requests", "chess"]}

  # Driver's specified `runtime_env`
  {"pip": ["torch"]}

>   # It will raise an exception because "pip" conflicts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  # Ray raises an exception because "pip" conflicts.
```

> **Driver to Tasks/Actors Inheritance**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Driver to Tasks (or Actors) inheritance**
```

> The runtime environment is inheritable, so it will apply to all tasks/actors within a job and all child tasks/actors of a task or actor once set, unless it is overridden.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The runtime environment is inheritable, so it applies to all Tasks and Actors within a Job and all child Tasks and Actors of a Task or Actor once set, unless it is overridden.
```

Runtime Environment Specified by Both Job and Driver
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> When running an entrypoint script (Driver), runtime environment can be specified via `ray.init(runtime_env=...)` or `ray job submit --runtime-env` (See :ref:`Specifying a Runtime Environment Per-Job <rte-per-job>` for more details).
> 
> - If runtime env is specified by ``ray job submit --runtime-env=...``, the runtime environments are applied to the entrypoint script (Driver) and all the tasks and actors created from it.
> - If runtime env is specified by ``ray.init(runtime_env=...)``, the runtime environments are applied to all the tasks and actors, but not the entrypoint script (Driver) itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running an entrypoint script (Driver), the runtime environment can be specified via `ray.init(runtime_env=...)` or `ray job submit --runtime-env` (See :ref:`Specifying a Runtime Environment Per-Job <rte-per-job>` for more details).

- If the runtime environment is specified by ``ray job submit --runtime-env=...``, the runtime environments are applied to the entrypoint script (Driver) and all the tasks and actors created from it.
- If the runtime environment is specified by ``ray.init(runtime_env=...)``, the runtime environments are applied to all the tasks and actors, but not the entrypoint script (Driver) itself.
```

  # Ray raises an exception because "pip" conflicts.

You can set an environment variable `RAY_OVERRIDE_JOB_RUNTIME_ENV=1`
to avoid raising an exception upon a conflict. In this case, the runtime environments
are inherited in the same way as :ref:`Driver and Task and Actor both specify
runtime environments <runtime-environments-inheritance>`, where ``ray job submit``

> is a parent and ``ray.init`` is a driver.. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is a parent and ``ray.init`` is a driver.
```
